# titin_PAINT
Code used to analyze DNA-PAINT data and extract Drosophila titin epitopes positions

## What is this about?

The codes you will find here were used to analyze the data of [Nanobodies combined with DNA-PAINT super-resolution reveal a staggered titin nano-architecture in flight muscles, Schueder et al. 2022](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.04.14.488306v1) and [A nanobody toolbox to investigate localisation and dynamics of Drosophila titins, Loreau et al. 2022](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.04.13.488177v1). 

## Analysis of nanobodies penetration capabilities (Fig. 2)

Intensities along myofibrils of intact Drosophila flight muscles were extracted from scanning-confocal stacks using the ImageJ macro "Fig2 Schueder Mangeol.ijm". The resulting profiles were analyzed with the python code "Fig_2_analysis.ipynb", consisting in extracting the intensities of individual bands and estimate how fast intensities decrease with depth.

## Extraction of distance between epitopes (Fig. 4-6)

Intact Drosophila flight muscles were imaged with DNA-PAINT and super-resolved images were recontructed with [Picasso](https://github.com/jungmannlab/picasso).

In a first step, from Picasso, individual myofibrils were selected. Localizations were either saved in separate files that were processed with the python codes "Step 1. Extract multi files multi selections.ipynb" or several selections were saved in one file and then processed in "Step 1. Extract from single file multi selections.ipynb".
These first codes extract the positions of bands generated by the accumulation of identical epitopes along myofibrils.

In a second step sarcomere length were extracted thanks to the python code "Step 2. Extract sarcomere length.ipynb".

From the output of these codes, we obtained the distributions of distances in Figures 4 to 6 graphs with the python code "Fig 4-6 graphs.ipynb"

## Extraction of bands intensities in Loreau et al.

The ImageJ macro toolset "Measure_band_simple.ijm" allows to extract the intensity of bands from fluorescence images.
It offers a correction for background and estimate the relative amount of nanobodies through the use of multiple rectangular selections encompassing regions of sarcomeres labelled by nanobodies.
